Day 06 - Windows Service Creation Detection
Objective

Simulate the creation of a Windows service and investigate how Wazuh detects system changes associated with the activity.

This exercise demonstrates how attackers can use Windows services to establish persistence and maintain access to a compromised system.

Lab Environment
Infrastructure
Windows 10 Pro Endpoint
Ubuntu 22.04 Wazuh Server
Kali Linux VM
VirtualBox Lab Environment
Components
Wazuh Manager
Wazuh Indexer
Wazuh Dashboard
Wazuh Windows Agent
Scenario

Attackers frequently create Windows services after obtaining administrative privileges.

Services can be configured to start automatically during system boot and execute code with elevated privileges.

The purpose of this exercise was to simulate service creation and investigate how Wazuh detects the resulting system modifications.

MITRE ATT&CK Mapping
T1112 - Modify Registry

Tactic

Defense Evasion

Description

Adversaries may modify the Windows Registry to store configuration data, maintain persistence, or alter system behavior.

Lab Relevance

Creating a Windows service generated new registry entries under:

HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\TestService

Wazuh detected the registry modification and mapped the activity to MITRE ATT&CK technique T1112.

Activity Performed
Service Creation

The following command was executed from an elevated Command Prompt:

sc create TestService binPath= "C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe"

Result:

[SC] CreateService SUCCESS

The service was successfully created and registered within Windows.

Detection Workflow

Windows Endpoint

↓

Windows Registry Modified

↓

Wazuh Agent

↓

Wazuh Manager

↓

Wazuh Dashboard

↓

SOC Investigation

Observed Detection
Alert Title
Registry value entry added to system
Detection Mode
scheduled
Registry Path
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\TestService
MITRE ATT&CK
T1112 - Modify Registry
Investigation Findings

Wazuh successfully detected the registry modifications generated during service creation.

The registry entry was associated with the newly created Windows service.

Analysis confirmed that the detected registry path directly matched the service created during the exercise.

Security Impact

If performed by an attacker, this technique could be used to:

Establish Persistence

The service can survive system reboots.

Execute Malicious Code

A service can be configured to launch malware or attacker-controlled programs.

Maintain Elevated Access

Services frequently run with privileged permissions.

Evade Casual Inspection

Background services are often overlooked by users.

Evidence Collected
Figure 1 - Service Creation Command

Screenshot showing execution of the service creation command.

Figure 2 - Service Creation Success Message

Screenshot showing successful service registration.

Figure 3 - Wazuh Overview Logs

Screenshot displaying detection within Wazuh.

Figure 4 - Detailed Alert Information

Screenshot showing registry path and alert details.

Figure 5 - MITRE ATT&CK Mapping

Screenshot displaying T1112 - Modify Registry mapping.

Key Findings
Windows service creation was successfully performed.
Wazuh detected registry modifications related to the service.
Registry path analysis confirmed linkage to the created service.
MITRE ATT&CK technique T1112 was automatically mapped.
Endpoint telemetry collection is functioning correctly.
Lessons Learned
Windows services are a common persistence mechanism.
Service creation results in registry modifications.
Registry monitoring can reveal attacker activity.
Wazuh can detect indirect evidence of attacker actions through system changes.
MITRE ATT&CK mappings help contextualize observed behavior.
Skills Practiced
Windows Service Analysis
Registry Monitoring
Wazuh Investigation
MITRE ATT&CK Analysis
Persistence Technique Identification
SOC Documentation
Status

Lab Exercise: Successful

Technique: T1112 - Modify Registry

Platform: Windows 10 Pro

SIEM: Wazuh

Result: Service creation activity generated registry modifications that were successfully detected and investigated using Wazuh.
